# Instructions

In these examples, I'm using a cheap $65 [Vevor water distiller](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0CN2SBJLT) since its thermal control is a 100C/212F snap switch. If you are using a unit that is only for ethanol distillation, you're going to need to bypass your 80C/176F snap switch. You can also bypass the one in a water distiller if you want to eliminate a potential future point of failure. Simply remove the wires from it and insert the connectors together. You will need to remove the heat shrink tubing in order to do this. Once you have them connected together, simply wrap the connection with electrical tape. If you have heat shrink tubing and blade connector couplers, that's even better yet.

Before we move any further with this, you're going to need some wire capable of handling the 750 watt load of the heating element. This shouldn't be too hard to come up with. Happen to have an old damaged extension cord? A dead blow dryer? A dead space heater, toaster, iron, etc? Just clip off a foot of the power cord, split the wires, then clip them in half and strip the ends.

Refer to the photo **Air-Still-Default-Wiring.jpg** in the above. The white wires are connected to the thermal control snap switch and are the AC neutral connection to the heating element. The blue wires are for an LED power indicator on the front of the still. The red wires are from the AC hot side and go to a circuit breaker on the front of the still and come back to connect to the other side of the heating element. Lastly, the yellow wires are the earth ground of the AC connection and connect to the body of the boiler vessel.

The object here is to disconnect the wires to the heating element and connect them to the AC input of the SCR controller. Since each side of the heating element has two wires with screw eye connectors, my suggestion is to clip off the screw eye connectors and leave about 1 inch of wire attached to them so you can reuse two of them for the return power from the SCR controller. Strip the ends of the wires, twist them together with a third wire about 6" long, then twist on a wire nut to secure the connections. Connect the wires to the AC input terminals of the SCR controller.

Do something similar with two more 6" wires to connect a screw eye terminal to each one. These connect the SCR controller output to the heating element. Mount the SCR controller to the bottom cover of the Air Still so that when you put the bottom back on, the heat sink of the SCR controller isn't in contact with the boiler vessel. This isn't for any electrical safety reasons, this is just so the heat from the boiler vessel isn't transferring directly into the SCR controller. You will likely need to use the 3D printed spacer provided here.

As you have likely already guessed, you're going to need longer screws/bolts to attach the bottom to your Air Still. These shouldn't be too hard to find at any Home Depot (or similar store). More on that part later. If you haven't already done so, disconnect the ribbon cable from the SCR controller interface but leave the other end connected to the SCR controller. You won't need the original controller interface anymore, go ahead and put it back in the box, you might find another project for it someday.
